# CS-499 ePortfolio

## Introduction

I’ve been attending the SNHU Computer Science program since early 2018. I started school shortly after getting out of the Marine Corps and attended the Computer Science program at Missouri State University. Through the stress of moving and seeking employment fresh out of the military, it became to much to keep attending an on-campus university and I dropped out. When my wife told me in January of 2018 that we were expected our first born, I knew I had to change what I was doing and envisioned more gainful employment once I was finally done with school. That is when I began submitting everything necessary for Southern New Hampshire University as a fulltime online student. Now that I am less than 2 weeks away from graduation and job searching, I couldn't be happier with my decision. 

## Educational Reflection

Although it is hard to summarize all I have been taught throughout my time within the Computer Science program, I will try. Attention to detail and patience is the main attribute I would like to focus on. I cannot count how many times I had failed code because of the smallest mishaps. One instance that comes to mind is during CS 330 while trying to get my 3D render going, I kept throwing errors. After chasing the problem for a solid week or so I broke down and just emailed my code to my instructor who was quick to catch the problem, It was simply a misspelled included library. The reason I include this is because in the future, while working with clients, it is easy to get overwhlelmed at times and sometimes code can seem like it is impossible to get running, and it is somethhing so simple. I will be reminded of that instance and take the time to slow down, take a few breaths and look at the simple solutions first. Another thing of importance is testing and team collaboration. You really do not think of these things when beginning a very simple project but in the computer science world, it normally involves teams of 10's to 100's of individuals each reaching an end goal. Some of favorite times within class was when I had to work with a small group of people, bouncing ideas off of each other and giving critism to each others code. Not only is it a great practice when going forward to an actual career within this field, it is a valuable lesson for when I begin to work with clients. The ability to talk to my client about ideas, understanding their needs and having an idea of how it will look whilst coding is an essential skill. 

## Portfolio Summary

All of the courses throughout the Computer Science program have helped me acquire the necessary skills and knowledge to position my self for a job in this industry. CS-250 taught me much about the Software Development Lifecyle and how communication with the client is important. CS-260 was a great lesson on data structures and algorithms. CS-310 showed me the basics of collaboration and explained how working together is necessary for large projects. CS-330 was an information look into the complexity of computer graphics. CS-340 helped me learn about create and use databases and showed how useful they can be.

While my learning was not restricted to these classes, I felt that these were some of the more important classes in the program, at least to me. From these classes I learned things I wasn't aware of initially. Because of that I wanted to incorporate the things I learned into my Portfolio. My first enhancement builds directly from my CS-330 Final Project and is aimed at increasing the complexity of the object rendered. I chose to do this do demonstrate my skills working with more complex problems. My second enhancement builds off of my IT-145 Final Project. I chose to work with that project in order to rewrite it in a different language and add what I learned from CS-250, by adding data structures and sorting algorithms into the mix. Finally, my third enhancement pulls from both DAT-220 and CS-340. Using the data provided in DAT-220, I wanted to take the MongoDB skills I learned in CS-340 and build an HTML interface to interact with the data.

Overall, these artifacts represent three distinct projects and don't necessarily mesh well together. However, I think that together, they allow me to demonstrate what I've learned throughout the program. I believe the enhancements made to these three projects represent my learning and display my competency in this program

## Preparing For The Future

My job in the military does not heavily rely on programming skills. However, having these skills could open up more opportunities in the future. By demonstrating my skills, I could move to a different shop and earn more programming experience to place on my resume. Right now, my career plans are up in the air. I have less than a year left in the military, but don’t have anything concrete set up for when I get out. The most likely outcome is that I’ll re-enlist for four additional years. This isn’t ideal for me because four more years is more commitment that I’d like at this time, but I’d like the job security at least. Since the programming opportunity in the military deals with data analytics, I plan to focus on that and try to specialize in information management in the near future.
